# **Microsoft Azure and the Call Center Industry – A Vital Partnership for Business Growth**
## An application of the callcenterapp program
--- 
Many businesses around the world employ customer call centers as an integral part of their operation. Call centers are facilities that receive, process information, and make calls to existing or potential customers. These call centers are the vital link between the company and its  current and future customers. For example, a tech company might employ a call center to help with any issues that customers  of their products  might have. Call center employees might also reach out to potential future customers through ‘cold calls’. 
In spite of this important role, the call center industry today still remains highly manual, employing many people to service requests. This is disadvantageous to companies that employ call centers because they need to spend a significant part of their budget paying, training and retaining call center employees. Furthermore, the cost of maintaining and operating a call center itself poses a significant financial strain. The cumulative capital spent on call centers could be better used elsewhere, like in improving the quality of products or investing in new business propositions. Automating the call center industry would also eliminate the human cost of abuse that call center agents sometimes face on a daily basis.. Serverless computer farms provide a possible solution to the problem by allowing companies to use cloud-based programs to deal with customers. Together with other automated programs like Cortina for front end human interface, such farms can also provide analytic capability and collection of data that would otherwise have to be documented by hand. Microsoft Azure is the leading serverless computer farm on the market, and it allows its clients to run software on the cloud, and process data more easily to run their business. Businesses can deploy resources like CPUs, storage, and applications in a more scalable manner with Azure without any upfront significant investment, allowing them to scale-up as they grow. Furthermore, Azure has a function to provide advice to companies about how to increase sales, something that cannot be easily done without expert knowledge. If marketed the right way and customized for the call center industry, Microsoft Azure will have an opportunity to make a profound impact on how call centers are run and operated. . 
### Call Centers As A Service and Microsoft Azure 
Call centers are a booming market.  According to Gartner, spending for contact center solutions will grow at a 7.1% CAGR through 2023. 59% of customers prefer brands that respond to customer service inquiries and complaints on social media than those brands that don’t. No wonder 77% of businesses see customer satisfaction as an important issue. 80% of all businesses surveyed  mentioned that customer feedback is “core to their DNA” or “core input to business decisions.” Yet, about 80% of the professionals surveyed by IBM believe that existing call centers will struggle in the future to meet customer demand. A solution like Microsoft Azure, with certain customization could help this trend. Furthermore, Azure can be used to create new applications to make processing of customer  requests easier. Product changes or additions that might be valuable include built-in functions to automatically answer to some queries or to provide advice to the business owner about optimizing customer satisfaction. 
### More Market Research Needed
The two foundational beliefs that will allow this product to win the market are user ease and customer satisfaction. Before Azure can be used to its maximum potential in this field, however, we must study the market and understand how Azure can be best used in the industry. Globally, the majority of call centers are in India and the Philippines. These places would benefit from having software that is easy to use and are more efficiently able to service calls. Currently, the Azure Platform provides advice to business owners for optimization. That capability can be optimized to increase customer satisfaction. Customer satisfaction would be documentable using factors like average call abandonment rate, percentage of blocked calls, and the average speed of answer. In this way, companies can use Azure to their advantage by increasing their efficiency in customer support. Built-in Azure functions, which provide data analysis and trends could be interpreted to help give the company a better understanding of what it needs to do to stay on top of an increasingly competitive global market. But we shouldn’t just stop there. We need to clearly understand the call center industry before we can serve it. Ways in which we can help improve Azure include providing surveys to call centers and noting the most frequent problems or annoyances. 
### Customization for Call Center Industry
Currently Azure allows for online databases, queue storage, and many other features. Online databases could be modified to store important statistics that can be analyzed and queue storage can help call centers function even during high traffic. However, non-call center related products can be compromised. We need to customize Azure so that it simplifies the work of call centers. We could add a virtual connection to the phone that is able to understand and analyze conversations. Factors like politeness towards the customer and ease of communication could be better represented in this way, leading businesses to be better aware of their level of customer service and the demands of their customers. 
### Deployment Plan
Methods for improving the quality of the product before it is released include beta testing the product out on a small sample and noting any issues that come up. Rigorous testing is needed to ensure that the product is working as needed. Furthermore a business-cost analysis is needed to understand if the product is having the intended effect on the industry and that it cannot be abused. We must make sure that our program is specialized for its customers and offers the best user interface by comparing it to other products that are already on the market or by integrating user feedback into our design. A smooth interaction among various teams (public input, technical, etc.) is needed to create the best product by encouraging all departments to work together as a team and ensure that all resources are available to create the best-quality product. However, we must also take into account scope, time, and budget. 
### Possible Risks and Mitigation Plan
Possible risks that might lead to the failure of attempting to integrate Azure into the call center industry are if alteration of context and situation direct focus away from the call center industry, making it less profitable. For example, the automated human interface needs to be tested to see the customer tolerance to it and may not be a success. Cost of deployment of Azure may be prohibitively high in India or Philippines. Conflicts between teams and failure to procure resources are some of the internal reasons why a product might fail to reach its market. Having checkpoints during deployment to measure progress will help mitigating these risks. 
After the product is released, we can document its progress by setting quantitative goals. Asking questions such as , ‘are our customer’s customer support efficiency increasing significantly by a set percentage after using our product?’ or  ‘how much percentage of the time is our data-driven insights actually helping the business?’ will help us stay focused on the goals.
### Conclusion
In conclusion, there is great potential for Microsoft Azure in automating the call center industry, but one must plan, organize, and implement in an orderly way that takes into account the customers before a successful release. 
